There are two levels to the sentence you highlight, the denotation or literal meaning and the conotation or poetic meaning. On a literal level, this sentence is just a way to say that the boy is very dirty and that he looks intently at his teacher. So why use this strange manner of speaking? What is a 'fist-sized clean space' in someone's face? Bear in mind that the eyes are never dirty. Even a coal-miner with black dust all over his face will have white eyes. I imagine that Burris also has the folds of skin around his eye-sockets and eyelids showing lighter than the rest of his filthy skin. To peer is to look intently, and a fist-sized clean space is an area free from dirt that is roughly the size of a fist. This sentence serves a sort of dual purpose because it describes the actions of Burris Ewell while also adding detail to his character and his relationship to the teacher. Burris is peering at the teacher because he is scrutinizing her; this is a confrontation, and one faces the enemy, stares them down, before the battle. Miss Caroline has just challenged him by instructing him in the proper way to treat lice. He stands up and rebels, rudely laughing at her and disdaining her hygiene advice. Later in the book, he will insult Miss Caroline by calling her a snot-nosed slut. Keep in mind that Bob Ewell, Burris' father, is the main villain of the book: a racist, ignorant 'white-trash' patriarch. Perhaps now it makes sense that we read of a 'fist-sized' clean space and not, say, an 'apple-sized' space. Burris Ewell, like his whole grimy family, exudes hatred, hence the mention of a 'fist', a kind of weapon. Though they may be so-called 'white' people (who have skin colors ranging from pink to light brown, if we speak scientifically), their souls show more darkness than light.

Recall the context of this passage in chapter 3. It is a scene in the schoolhouse that young Scout observes between two main characters, her schoolmarm Miss Caroline and the hulking, filthy boy named Burris Ewell. It is the second scene in chapter 3 and it shares similar themes with the first.

Chapter 3 begins with a scene where Scout is bullying a boy, Walter Cunningham. Scout's older brother Jem breaks up the fight and invites Walter to join them at home for lunch. Throughout this scene, the tomboyish Scout learns about social grace from her brother, father and the maid Calpurnia. In particular, scout scoffs at her guest Walter: he pours molasses all over his plate, dousing his meal in syrup.

Here is the scene, for the record :
> Atticus was expounding upon farm problems when Walter interrupted to ask if there was any molasses in the house. Atticus summoned Calpurnia, who returned bearing the syrup pitcher. She stood waiting for Walter to help himself. Walter poured syrup on his vegetables and meat with a generous hand. He would probably have poured it into his milk glass had I not asked what the sam hill he was doing.  The silver saucer clattered when he replaced the pitcher, and he quickly put his hands in his lap. Then he ducked his head.  Atticus shook his head at me again. "But he's gone and drowned his dinner in syrup," I protested. "He's poured it all over-" \
It was then that Calpurnia requested my presence in the kitchen. \
She was furious, and when she was furious Calpurnia's grammar became erratic. When in tranquility, her grammar was as good as anybody's in Maycomb. Atticus said Calpurnia had more education than most colored folks.When she squinted down at me the tiny lines around her eyes deepened. **"There's some folks who don't eat like us,**" she whispered fiercely, "but you ain't called on to contradict 'em at the table when they don't. That boy's yo' comp'ny and if he wants to eat up the table cloth you let him, you hear?" \
"He ain't company, Cal, he's just a Cunningham-" \
"Hush your mouth! Don't matter who they are, anybody sets foot in this house's yo' comp'ny, and don't you let me catch you remarkin' on their ways like you was so high and mighty! Yo' folks might be better'n the Cunninghams but it don't count for nothin' the way you're disgracin' 'em- if you can't act fit to eat at the table you can just set here and eat in the kitchen!" 

Scout does not realize that southern hospitality requires her to ignore the gluttonous, uncouth way that Cunningham uses the syrup. She knows she would surely be punished for behaving so, and sense injustice. What she does not realize is that she and Cunningham come from different worlds. Her father, Atticus, is the hero of the book and one of the all-time greatest moral exemplars in American literature. Atticus does Walter two kindnesses that afternoon. First, he generously shares his food with the poor boy; second, he avoids from shaming him by bringing their difference in social class to light. Yet this is exactly what Scout does when she asks 'what in the sam hill' (which is a southern exclamation similar to "what in the hell", but not technically a swear-word) he is doing pouring the syrup so boorishly.

This is what immediately proceeds the second major event of the chapter, where your quotation comes from. Miss Caroline is shocked by the louse that crawls from the filthy boy's hair. Like Scout, she learns a few things about the world that morning. Though Miss Caroline is an educated adult like Atticus Finch, she is less savvy than him. She fails to avoid an embarrassing confrontation with a child of much lower social status.

Here is more of the context from the part you quote, for anyone who is interested:

> Finally she found her voice. "What is your name, son?" she asked softly. \
The boy blinked. "Who, me?" Miss Caroline nodded. \
"Burris Ewell." \
Miss Caroline inspected her roll-book. "I have a Ewell here, but I don't have a first name... would you spell your first name for me?""Don't know how. They call me Burris't home." \
"Well, Burris," said Miss Caroline, "I think we'd better excuse you for the rest of the afternoon. I want you to go home and wash yourhair." \
From her desk she produced a thick volume, leafed through its pages and read for a moment. "A good home remedy for- Burris, I wantyou to go home and wash your hair with lye soap. When you've donethat, treat your scalp with kerosene." \
"What fer, missus?" \
"To get rid of the- er, cooties. You see, Burris, the other children might catch them, and you wouldn't want that, would you?" \
The boy stood up. He was the filthiest human I had ever seen. His neck was dark gray, the backs of his hands were rusty, and his fingernails were black deep into the quick. He peered at Miss Caroline from a fist-sized clean space on his face. No one had noticed him, probably, because Miss Caroline and I had entertained the class mostof the morning. \
"And Burris," said Miss Caroline, "please bathe yourself before you come back tomorrow." \
The boy laughed rudely. "You ain't sendin' me home, missus. I was onthe verge of leavin'- I done done my time for this year." \
Miss Caroline looked puzzled. "What do you mean by that?"\
The boy did not answer. He gave a short contemptuous snort. \
One of the elderly members of the class answered her: "He's one of the Ewells, ma'am," and I wondered if this explanation would be as unsuccessful as my attempt. But Miss Caroline seemed willing to listen. "Whole school's full of 'em. They come first day every year and then leave. The truant lady gets 'em here 'cause she threatens 'em with the sheriff, but she's give up tryin' to hold 'em. She reckons she's carried out the law just gettin' their names on the roll and runnin' 'em here the first day. You're supposed to mark 'em absent the rest of the year..." \
"But what about their parents?" asked Miss Caroline, in genuine concern. 

